.\"#############################################################################
.\"$Id: nodeupdown_handle_create.3,v 1.12 2010-02-02 00:01:53 chu11 Exp $
.\"#############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
.\"  UCRL-CODE-155699
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
.\"  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
.\"
.\"  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
.\"  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
.\"  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
.\"  for more details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Whatsup.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_HANDLE_CREATE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_handle_create \- create a nodeupdown handle 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "nodeupdown_t nodeupdown_handle_create(void);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.br
\fBnodeupdown_handle_create()\fR creates a nodeupdown handle for use
with the nodeupdown library of functions.  A nodeupdown handle is of
type nodeupdown_t, which is defined in nodeupdown.h.  The nodeupdown
handle must be passed to most of the nodeupdown library functions.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, a nodeupdown handle (datatype nodeupdown_t) will be
returned. On error, NULL is returned.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
nodeupdown_handle_destroy(3), nodeupdown_load_data(3)
