.\"#############################################################################
.\"$Id: nodeupdown_load_data.3,v 1.36 2010-02-02 00:01:53 chu11 Exp $
.\"#############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
.\"  UCRL-CODE-155699
.\"
.\"  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
.\"  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
.\"
.\"  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"
.\"  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\"  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\"  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\"  for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Whatsup.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_LOAD_DATA 3 "November 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_load_data \- load data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_load_data(nodeupdown_t handle, const char *hostname, int port, int timeout_len, char *module);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_load_data()\fR loads data from the nodeupdown backend
tool's server so that the remaining nodeupdown library functions can
properly return information about up and down nodes.

\fIhandle\fR is a nodeupdown
handle created by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).

\fIhostname\fR should indicate the location of the server.  If
\fIhostname\fR is NULL, nodeupdown assumes the backend tool's default
server.

\fIport\fR should indicate the port number of the server.  If
\fIport\fR less than or equal to 0, nodeupdown assumes the server is
running on the backend tool's default port.

\fItimeout_len\fR should indicate the timeout length in seconds that
determines if a node is up or down.  If \fItimeout_len\fR is less than
or equal to 0, nodeupdown assumes the backend tool's default timeout.

\fImodule\fR may be used to specify a specific backend module for
up-down calculations.  If \fImodule\fR is NULL, nodeupdown will search
for the appropriate module itself.

The default values used in \fBnodeupdown_load_data()\fR can be
overwritten if a nodeupdown configuration module is found or
if the nodeupdown configuration file is used.  See
.BR libnodeupdown (3)
and
.BR nodeupdown.conf (5)
for information.  The nodeupdown configuration file has precedence
over the configuration module.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OPEN
A clusterlist database could not be opened.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONNECT
Error connecting to server specified by \fIhostname\fR and \fIgmond_port\fR.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONNECT_TIMEOUT
Connection to server timed out.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_HOSTNAME
Incorrect hostname specified by \fIhostname\fR.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_ISLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has already been called with \fIhandle\fR.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_BACKEND_MODULE
Internal error with the backend module
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CLUSTERLIST_MODULE
Internal error with the clusterlist module
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONFIG_MODULE
Internal error with the config module
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONF_PARSE
Error parsing the nodeupdown conf file.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONF_INPUT
Error with input in the nodeupdown conf file.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CONF_INTERNAL
Internal error with the nodeupdown configuration file.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a nodeupdown handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3),
nodeupdown_handle_destroy(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3),
nodeupdown_strerror(3), nodeupdown.conf(5)
