\."#################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_dump.3,v 1.3 2003-04-24 15:46:31 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH NODEUPDOWN_DUMP 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_dump \- dump the contents of a nodeupdown handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_dump(nodeupdown_t handle, FILE *stream);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_dump()\fR dumps the contents stored in \fIhandle\fR
to the stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR.  If \fIstream\fR is NULL, 
the contents are dumped to standard output.  This function is used
almost exclusively for debugging purposes. 
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error code
is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved
via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with 
.BR nodeupdown_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved from genders and ganglia.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not point to a nodeupdown
handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by 
.BR nodeupdown_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_create(3), nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3), nodeupdown_strerror(3)
