\."#################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_is_node.3,v 1.5 2003-04-24 18:23:06 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH NODEUPDOWN_IS_NODE_UP 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_is_node_up, nodeupdown_is_node_down \- test if a node is up or down
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_is_node_up(nodeupdown_t handle, char *node);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_is_node_down(nodeupdown_t handle, char *node);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_is_node_up()\fR tests if the node pointed to by \fInode\fR
is up.  

\fBnodeupdown_is_node_down()\fR tests if the node pointed to by \fInode\fR
is down.  

The node name passed into these functions must be the shortened name of the
hostname.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
For \fBnodeupdown_is_node_up()\fR, 1 is returned if the node is up, 0
is returned if the node is down.  
For \fBnodeupdown_is_node_down()\fR, 1 is returned if the node is down,
0 is returned if the node is up.  
On error, both return -1, and an error code
is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved
via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with 
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved from genders and ganglia.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NODE_CONFLICT
gmond lists a node that genders has no knowledge of
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTFOUND
The node pointed to by \fInode\fR is not found in the genders file.  
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_GENDERS
genders C API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_HOSTLIST
hostlist API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not point to a nodeupdown
handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by 
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3), nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3), nodeupdown_strerror(3)
