\."#################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown.conf.5,v 1.3 2003-08-28 19:08:27 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH NODEUPDOWN.CONF 5 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown.conf \- specify alternate default values to nodeupdown_load_data(3)
.SH DESCRIPTION

Through a configuration file, system administrators may optionally
specify a different default gmond hostname, IP address, or port number
for
.BR nodeupdown_load_data(3). 
The configuration file should be stored at the location defined by
NODEUPDOWN_CONF_FILE.  The existence of the configuration file informs
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3) 
that when default values are passed into
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3),
it should first attempt to connect to the gmond server specified in
the configuration file.  If that connection fails, there will be a
second attempt to connect to the statically defined default server.

An example configuration file is shown below.

# Nodeupdown configuration
.br
# gmond_hostname      foo
.br
# gmond_ip            111.111.111.111
.br
# gmond_port          8649 
.br
gmond_ip            192.168.11.11
.br
gmond_port          8689
.br

The hostname, IP address, or port may be separated by any amount of
whitespace.  They must be stored on the same line as the specified
configuration type.  Comments can be specified with a '#' at the
beginning of a line.

Similarly to the 
.BR nodeupdown_load_data(3)
interface, the hostname is ignored if both the hostname and IP address
are specified in the configuration file.  Therefore, it is only
necessary to specify either the hostname or IP address.

Note that a configuration file's hostname or IP address will be used
only if the user sets \fIgmond_hostname\fR and \fIgmond_ip\fR to NULL
when calling 
.BR nodeupdown_load_data(3).  
The configuration file's port will be used if the user specifies use
of the default port (i.e. if \fIgmond_port\fR is less than or equal to
0).

If the configuration file can't be read, is improperly formatted, or
the connection to the gmond server fails,
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
will not fail.  It will continue and make an attempt to connect to the
statically defined default gmond server.
.br
.SH FILES
/etc/nodeupdown.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_load_data(3)
