.\"#############################################################################
.\"$Id: nodeupdown_nodelist_create.3,v 1.10 2010-02-02 00:01:53 chu11 Exp $
.\"#############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
.\"  UCRL-CODE-155699
.\"
.\"  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
.\"  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
.\"
.\"  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"
.\"  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\"  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\"  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\"  for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Whatsup.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_NODELIST_CREATE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_nodelist_create, nodeupdown_nodelist_clear,
nodeupdown_nodelist_destroy - create, clear, and destroy lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_nodelist_create(nodeupdown_t handle, char ***list);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_nodelist_clear(nodeupdown_t handle, char **list);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_nodelist_destroy(nodeupdown_t handle, char **list);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_create()\fR, \fBnodeupdown_nodelist_clear()\fR,
and \fBnodeupdown_nodelist_destroy()\fR are used to create, clear, and
destroy lists (arrays of strings) for use with
.BR nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_list (3)
and
.BR nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_list (3).

\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_create()\fR creates a list with minimum size to
store nodes.  \fIlist\fR is set to point to the created list.  The
created list is guaranteed to store all the nodes returned from
.BR nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_list (3)
and
.BR nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_list (3).

\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_clear()\fR clears any information stored in the
list pointed to by \fIlist\fR.  This does not have be called after
\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_create()\fR.  It only has to be called after
being used with
.BR nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_list (3)
or
.BR nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_list (3)
and the programmer wishes to re-use the list.

\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_destroy()\fR destroys the list pointed to by
\fIlist\fR and frees all memory associated with the list.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, \fBnodeupdown_nodelist_create()\fR returns the number of
elements the created list can store.  On success,
\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_clear()\fR, and
\fBnodeupdown_nodelist_destroy()\fR return 0.  On error, -1 is
returned, and an error code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error
code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_ISFREE
All lists associated with \fIhandle\fR have already been freed.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a nodeupdown handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3),
nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_list (3),
nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_list (3), nodeupdown_errnum(3),
nodeupdown_strerror(3)
