\."#############################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_get_nodes_string.3,v 1.15 2005-04-25 19:32:47 achu Exp $
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155699
\."  
\."  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
\."  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."
\."  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Whatsup; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_GET_UP_NODES_STRING 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_string, nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_string, -
get up or down nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_string(nodeupdown_t handle, char *buf, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_string(nodeupdown_t handle, char *buf, int buflen);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_get_up_nodes_string()\fR retrieves a ranged string of
nodes that are up and places it in the buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR.
\fIbuflen\fR should indicate the length of the buffer.
\fBnodeupdown_get_down_nodes_string()\fR is identical to
\fBnodeupdown_get_up_nodes_string()\fR, except that it retrieves a
ranged string of down nodes.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved from ganglia.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OVERFLOW
The buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR is not large enough to store the
ranged string of nodes.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CLUSTERLIST_MODULE
Internal error with the clusterlist module
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_HOSTLIST
Hostlist API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a nodeupdown handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3),
nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_get_up_nodes_list (3),
nodeupdown_get_down_nodes_list (3), nodeupdown_errnum(3),
nodeupdown_strerror(3)
