\."#############################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_is_node_up.3,v 1.5 2005-05-15 14:58:59 achu Exp $
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155699
\."  
\."  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
\."  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."
\."  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Whatsup; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_IS_NODE_UP 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_is_node_up, nodeupdown_is_node_down \- test if a node is up
or down
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_is_node_up(nodeupdown_t handle, const char *node);"
q.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_is_node_down(nodeupdown_t handle, const char *node);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_is_node_up()\fR tests if the node pointed to by
\fInode\fR is up.

\fBnodeupdown_is_node_down()\fR tests if the node pointed to by
\fInode\fR is down.

The node name passed into these functions must be the shortened name
of the hostname.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
For \fBnodeupdown_is_node_up()\fR, 1 is returned if the node is up, 0
is returned if the node is down.  For \fBnodeupdown_is_node_down()\fR,
1 is returned if the node is down, 0 is returned if the node is up.
On error, both return -1, and an error code is returned in
\fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTFOUND
The node pointed to by \fInode\fR is not known.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_CLUSTERLIST_MODULE
Internal error with the clusterlist module
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_HOSTLIST
Hostlist API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a nodeupdown handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3),
nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3), nodeupdown_strerror(3)
