\."#################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_node_count.3,v 1.1 2003-09-23 23:09:06 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH NODEUPDOWN_UP_COUNT 3 "September 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_up_count, nodeupdown_down_count \- return the number of nodes that are up or down
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_up_count(nodeupdown_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_down_count(nodeupdown_t handle);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_up_count()\fR returns the number of nodes that are up.

\fBnodeupdown_down_count()\fR returns the number of nodes that are down.

.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, \fBnodeupdown_up_count()\fR and
\fBnodeupdown_down_count()\fR will return the number of up or down
nodes respectively. On error, both return -1, and an error code is
returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3), 
and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with
.BR nodeupdown_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved from genders and
ganglia.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a nodeupdown handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR nodeupdown_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_handle_create(3),
nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3), nodeupdown_strerror(3)
