\."#############################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_errors.3,v 1.8 2003-12-29 19:02:01 achu Exp $
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155699
\."  
\."  This file is part of Whatsup, tools and libraries for determining up and
\."  down nodes in a cluster.  For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."
\."  Whatsup is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Whatsup is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Whatsup; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH NODEUPDOWN_ERRNUM 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_errnum, nodeupdown_strerror, nodeupdown_errormsg,
nodeupdown_perror \- get information about recent nodeupdown errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_errnum(nodeupdown_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "char *nodeupdown_strerror(int errnum);"
.sp
.BI "char *nodeupdown_errormsg(nodeupdown_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "void nodeupdown_perror(nodeupdown_t handle, const char *msg);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_errnum()\fR returns the error code stored in
\fIhandle\fR.

\fBnodeupdown_strerror()\fR returns a string describing the error code
\fIerrnum\fR.

\fBnodeupdown_errormsg()\fR returns a string describing the error code
stored in \fIhandle\fR.  It equivalent to:

char *nodeupdown_strerror(nodeupdown_errnum(nodeupdown_t handle));

\fBnodeupdown_perror()\fR is similar to 
.BR perror (3).
It produces a message on standard error output, describing the error
stored in \fIhandle\fR.  If \fImsg\fR is not NULL, the string pointed
to by \fImsg\fR, a colon, and a blank are printed before the error
message.

In general, \fBnodeupdown_errnum()\fR, \fBnodeupdown_strerror()\fR,
\fBnodeupdown_errormsg()\fR, and \fBnodeupdown_perror()\fR should be
used immediately after a nodeupdown library function returns an error.
Thus, these functions can return information about the most recent
error that has occurred.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, \fBnodeupdown_errnum()\fR returns the error code stored in
\fIhandle\fR.  On error, -1 is returned.

On success, \fBnodeupdown_strerror()\fR and
\fBnodeupdown_errormsg()\fR, return a pointer to a string describing
the error code stored in \fIhandle\fR.  On error, NULL is returned.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3)
