\."#################################################################
\."$Id: nodeupdown_convert_altnames.3,v 1.2 2003-04-24 15:46:31 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH NODEUPDOWN_CONVERT_STRING_TO_ALTNAMES 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBNODEUPDOWN"
.SH NAME
nodeupdown_convert_string_to_altnames, nodeupdown_convert_list_to_altnames - convert node names to alternate node names
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <nodeupdown.h>
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_convert_string_to_altnames(nodeupdown_t handle, char *src, char *dest, int buflen);"
.sp
.BI "int nodeupdown_convert_list_to_altnames(nodeupdown_t handle, char **src, char **dest, int num_src_nodes);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnodeupdown_convert_string_to_altnames()\fR converts the ranged
string of node names pointed to by \fIsrc\fR, and converts it into a
ranged string of alternate node names.  The resulting string is
placed into the buffer pointed to by \fIdest\fR.  \fIbuflen\fR should
indicate the length of the buffer.

\fBnodeupdown_convert_list_to_altnames()\fR is identical to
\fBnodeupdown_convert_string_to_altnames()\fR, except the node names
in the list pointed to by \fIsrc\fR are converted to alternate node
names.  The resulting alternate node names are placed into the list pointed
to by \fIdest\fR.  \fInum_src_nodes\fR should indicate the number of
nodes listed in src.  The list pointed to by \fIdest\fR should be
large enough to store \fInum_src_nodes\fR elements.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error code
is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved
via
.BR nodeupdown_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR nodeupdown_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in nodeupdown.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The handle parameter is NULL.  The nodeupdown handle must be created
with 
.BR nodeupdown_create (3).
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR nodeupdown_load_data (3)
has not been called and no data has been retrieved from genders and ganglia.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OVERFLOW
The buffer or list pointed to by \fIdest\fR is not large enough to store the resulting string or list of nodes.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_NOTFOUND
A node in \fIsrc\fR is not found in the genders file.  
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_GENDERS
genders C API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_HOSTLIST
hostlist API has failed internally.
.TP
.B NODEUPDOWN_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not point to a nodeupdown
handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by 
.BR nodeupdown_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/nodeupdown.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libnodeupdown(3), nodeupdown_create(3), nodeupdown_load_data(3), nodeupdown_errnum(3), nodeupdown_strerror(3)
