\."#################################################################
\."$Id: whatsup.1,v 1.10 2003-04-08 23:53:57 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH Whatsup 1 "Release 1.0" "LLNL" "Whatsup"
.SH NAME
whatsup \- list up and/or down nodes in a cluster
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whatsup
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fINODES\fR]...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B whatsup
lists which nodes are currently up or down in a
cluster.  It determines which nodes are up or down based on
information gathered from genders and ganglia.  

.B whatsup
will check on the status of every node in the cluster unless specific
nodes are listed at the command line.  The nodes can be listed in
hostlist format, comma separated lists, or space separated lists.  See
the section below on HOST RANGES for instructions on how to list hosts
in hostlist format.  The hostnames listed must be the shortened names
of hostnames.  What information is listed and how it is listed is
dependent on the options listed below.

.B whatsup 
is configured to work on nodes in which ganglia is not setup to be
deaf.  Generally speaking, non-deaf ganglia nodes are only executed
on management nodes, not login or compute nodes.  In order to execute
.B whatsup
on a deaf ganglia node, use the --hostname ('o') option to force
.B whatsup
to contact a management node's gmond daemon instead of the local gmond
daemon.
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print help and exit
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
Print version and exit
.TP
.B \-f \fISTRING\fR, \fB\-\-filename\fR=\fISTRING\fR
Location of genders file (default=/etc/genders)
.TP
.B \-o \fISTRING\fR, \fB\-\-hostname\fR=\fISTRING\fR
gmond server hostname (default=localhost)
.TP
.B \-i \fISTRING\fR, \fB\-\-ip\fR=\fISTRING\fR
gmond server IP address (default=127.0.0.1)
.TP
.B \-p \fIINT\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIINT\fR
gmond server port (default=8649)
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-updown
List both up and down nodes (default)
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-up
List only up nodes
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-down
List only down nodes
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-hostlist
List nodes in hostlist format (default)
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-comma
List nodes in comma separated list
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-newline
List nodes in newline separated list
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-space
List nodes in space separated list
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-altnames
List nodes by alternate names (default=off)
.TP
.B \-g \fISTRING\fR, \-\-attribute=\fISTRING\fR
List only nodes with the specified genders attribute.
.SH "HOST RANGES"
As noted in sections above,
.B whatsup
accepts ranges of hostnames in
the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...], where n < m and l < k, etc.,
as an alternative to explicit lists of hosts.  This form should not
be confused with regular expression character classes (also denoted
by ``[]''). For example, foo[19] does not represent foo1 or foo9, but
rather represents a degenerate range: foo19.

This range syntax is meant
only as a convenience on clusters with a prefixNN naming convention and
specification of ranges should not be considered necessary -- the list
foo1,foo9 could be specified as such, or by the range foo[1,9].

Some examples of range usage follow:

List all nodes among foo01,foo02,...,foo05 that are up and down 
    whatsup foo[01-05]

List all nodes among foo7,foo9,foo10 that are up and down
    whatsup foo[7,9-10]

As a reminder to the reader, some shells will interpret brackets
('[' and ']') for pattern matching.  Depending on your shell, it may 
be necessary to enclose hostlist formatted lists within quotes.  For 
example, in tcsh, the above two examples should be executed as:

    whatsup "foo[01-05]"
    whatsup "foo[7,9-10]"

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
List all nodes that are up and down.
     whatsup
.LP
List all nodes that are down
     whatsup -d
.LP
List all nodes among foo[0-20] that are down
     whatsup -d foo[0-20]
.LP
List all nodes that are up and down by their alternate names
     whatsup -a
.LP
List all nodes among foo[5-25] that are up by their alternate names
     whatsup -u -a foo[5-25]
.LP
List all nodes that are up in comma separated lists.	
     whatsup -u -c
.LP
List all nodes that are up among the nodes foo2, foo4, and foo8
     whatsup -u foo2,foo4,foo8
.SH "FILES"
/usr/bin/whatsup
.SH "SEE ALSO"
libgenders(3), libnodeupdown(3)
.SH "ORIGIN"
Developed by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov> on LLNL's Linux 
clusters.  This software is open source and distributed under
the terms of the Gnu GPL.  
